README.md, before:

# WIP

This project is a *work in progress*. The implementation is *incomplete* and
subject to change. The documentation can be inaccurate.


Sensor data (RHT03/DHT22 temperature and humidity) in Raspberry Pi 2/3 to
the Prometheus open-source monitoring system. It tries to make the sampler
as smaller as possible in RAM footprint inside the Raspberry Pi 2/3 since
it runs 24x7, so it uses the Adafruit MIT-licensed C-code underlying their
Python wrapper:

[https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Python_DHT/tree/master/source](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Python_DHT/tree/master/source)

Sample output (in Prometheus Text exposition format, [https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#text-format-details](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#text-format-details)):
          
          # TYPE dht22_relat_humidity gauge
          # HELP dht22_relat_humidity Relative humidity percentage in the RHT03/DHT22 sensor
          dht22_relat_humidity 22.40 1524280570563
          # TYPE dht22_temperature_celsius gauge
          # HELP dht22_temperature_celsius Temperature in the RHT03/DHT22 sensor
          dht22_temperature_celsius 24.00 1524280570563
          
To compile this C program:
          
          make compile

The `-h` option will give a command-line usage:

          rasppi_dht22_sampler:
          Take samples from a RHT03/DHT22 sensor attached to a Raspberry Pi 2/3 to the Prometheus monitoring system's text collector.

          Optional command-line arguments:
             [-h] [-f] [-g gpio_idx] [-w wait_seconds] [-d directory] [prometheus_label="value"] ...

          Explanation of the optional command-line arguments:

               -h: show these help messages.
               -f: report temperature in Fahrenheit degrees (default: Celsius).
               -g gpio_idx: the GPIO index by which this Raspberry Pi 2/3 communicates with the RHT03/DHT22 (default: 17).
               -w wait_seconds: seconds to wait between consecutive polls from the sensor (default: 60 seconds).
               -d directory: directory where Prometheus' Text-Collector expects the sample metric files to read (default: /var/lib/node_exporter/textfile_collector).
               prometheus_label="value"...: Prometheus label="value" pairs with which to tag the output (default: none).
                                           (Note: Prometheus requires that the value of the label needs to be quoted between '"' double-quotes.
                                            These opening and closing quotes need to be given in the command-line argument.
                                            Probably, in a sh- or bash- like shell, the whole label="value" needs to be protected thus:
                                               'label="value"'.)

When the `-f` command-line option is used, the Prometheus metric reported is `dht22_temperature_farenheit` (and not the default `dht22_temperature_celsius`, which is how the RHT03/DHT22 originally reports its sample of the temperature).

For example:

          rasppi_dht22_sampler -w 20 -f 'Prometheus_Label_A="1"' 'label_b="2"' 'label_c="3"'

waits 20 seconds between samples, reports the temperature in Farenheit degrees, and labels the metrics with those label-names and values: `Prometheus_Label_A="1"`, `label_b="2"`, and `label_c="3"`:

          # TYPE dht22_relat_humidity gauge
          # HELP dht22_relat_humidity Relative humidity percentage in the RHT03/DHT22 sensor
          dht22_relat_humidity{Prometheus_Label_A="1", label_b="2", label_c="3"} 22.50 1524280806924
          # TYPE dht22_temperature_farenheit gauge
          # HELP dht22_temperature_farenheit Temperature in the RHT03/DHT22 sensor
          dht22_temperature_farenheit{Prometheus_Label_A="1", label_b="2", label_c="3"} 75.38 1524280806924

Commit message:

some new-lines in fprintf(stderr,...), and relation of -d option to Prometheus' --collector.textfile.directory option

README.md, after:

# WIP

This project is a *work in progress*. The implementation is *incomplete* and
subject to change. The documentation can be inaccurate.


Sensor data (RHT03/DHT22 temperature and humidity) in Raspberry Pi 2/3 to
the Prometheus open-source monitoring system. It tries to make the sampler
as smaller as possible in RAM footprint inside the Raspberry Pi 2/3 since
it runs 24x7, so it uses the Adafruit MIT-licensed C-code underlying their
Python wrapper:

[https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Python_DHT/tree/master/source](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Python_DHT/tree/master/source)

Sample output (in Prometheus Text exposition format, [https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#text-format-details](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#text-format-details)):
          
          # TYPE dht22_relat_humidity gauge
          # HELP dht22_relat_humidity Relative humidity percentage in the RHT03/DHT22 sensor
          dht22_relat_humidity 22.40 1524280570563
          # TYPE dht22_temperature_celsius gauge
          # HELP dht22_temperature_celsius Temperature in the RHT03/DHT22 sensor
          dht22_temperature_celsius 24.00 1524280570563
          
To compile this C program:
          
          make compile

The `-h` option will give a command-line usage:

          rasppi_dht22_sampler:
          Take samples from a RHT03/DHT22 sensor attached to a Raspberry Pi 2/3 to the Prometheus monitoring system's text collector.

          Optional command-line arguments:
             [-h] [-f] [-g gpio_idx] [-w wait_seconds] [-d directory] [prometheus_label="value"] ...

          Explanation of the optional command-line arguments:

               -h: show these help messages.
               -f: report temperature in Fahrenheit degrees (default: Celsius).
               -g gpio_idx: the GPIO index by which this Raspberry Pi 2/3 communicates with the RHT03/DHT22 (default: 17).
               -w wait_seconds: seconds to wait between consecutive polls from the sensor (default: 60 seconds).
               -d directory: directory where Prometheus' Text-Collector expects the sample metric files to read (default: /var/lib/node_exporter/textfile_collector).
               prometheus_label="value"...: Prometheus label="value" pairs with which to tag the output (default: none).
                                           (Note: Prometheus requires that the value of the label needs to be quoted between '"' double-quotes.
                                            These opening and closing quotes need to be given in the command-line argument.
                                            Probably, in a sh- or bash- like shell, the whole label="value" needs to be protected thus:
                                               'label="value"'.)

The option `-d directory` for this program must match the option `--collector.textfile.directory directory` for the Prometheus' node-exporter running in the Raspberry Pi 2/3.

When the `-f` command-line option is used, the Prometheus metric reported is `dht22_temperature_farenheit` (and not the default `dht22_temperature_celsius`, which is how the RHT03/DHT22 originally reports its sample of the temperature).

For example:

          rasppi_dht22_sampler -w 20 -f 'Prometheus_Label_A="1"' 'label_b="2"' 'label_c="3"'

waits 20 seconds between samples, reports the temperature in Farenheit degrees, and labels the metrics with those label-names and values: `Prometheus_Label_A="1"`, `label_b="2"`, and `label_c="3"`:

          # TYPE dht22_relat_humidity gauge
          # HELP dht22_relat_humidity Relative humidity percentage in the RHT03/DHT22 sensor
          dht22_relat_humidity{Prometheus_Label_A="1", label_b="2", label_c="3"} 22.50 1524280806924
          # TYPE dht22_temperature_farenheit gauge
          # HELP dht22_temperature_farenheit Temperature in the RHT03/DHT22 sensor
          dht22_temperature_farenheit{Prometheus_Label_A="1", label_b="2", label_c="3"} 75.38 1524280806924
